Now we invite you
to enjoy a special presentation
that highlights
the relocation of headquarters
from Brooklyn to Warwick.
We’d like to let you know
that the Governing Body
has decided that if the approvals
are received
for the Warwick project,
we will be moving completely
out of Brooklyn.
The world headquarters
will be relocated at Warwick.
Jehovah is telling us
through the Governing Body,
“It’s time to move out of Brooklyn.”
The Governing Body,
these brothers,
as soon as they see
Jehovah’s direction, they just move.
It doesn’t matter if it’s
long-held cherished ideas.
This is the way it has to be done.
As soon as they see
Jehovah’s direction, it’s done.
Jehovah had everything in control.
He just kept nudging imperfect humans.
You know,
he knew where he wanted us,
and then we end up
where we’re supposed to be.
In the world, actually,
they can accomplish projects quickly.
They basically say,
“Time is of the essence,”
and they mean it.
Cost has to be almost
not a consideration.
People are not a consideration.
Jehovah’s organization is different.
What made the Warwick project
different than all the others,
and Jehovah knew,
is the fact that he realized
that we needed
constant spiritual food.
We would arrive on our buses,
arrive in our vans,
and we would go to
morning worship.
The spirituality of the family
really made this
a theocratic project
that stood out
in the minds of many.
The outside contractors there,
they noticed that we were putting
spiritual things before physical things,
and they commented on that,
“While we arrive and get right to work,
you arrive and you worship your God.”
The Branch Committee
contacted four of us
to set up a team to do the move out
from Brooklyn to Warwick.
Now it became the reality
of completely clearing out,
and I mean that’s everything.
That was a pretty daunting thing
because when people
want to buy your properties,
they want to take
possession right away.
There are six buildings that are connected
through tunnels underground.
And so, if a buyer is not interested
in purchasing multiple buildings,
the sale of the properties
are going to disconnect those tunnels.
New York City law requires
we fill those up with concrete.
We didn’t anticipate that.
Once we fill those tunnels,
that cuts off the utilities
to the rest of the buildings.
So how do you heat
the other buildings?
How do you keep their electricity,
their communication going?
When can you shut it off?
When will the people be moving?
Those are all the logistics
that came into question
and that we had
to work through.
When we look at the work,
it’s like an iceberg
—16 properties to empty;
1.6 million square feet;
over 2,000 individuals
to get moved out
in 13 months;
take that and look at 70 departments
—and you start to get
a picture of the growth
of the job already expanded.
If you shut down this service
to the Bethel family
because you’re moving that department,
you still have maybe 1,500,
1,200 people
relying on that type of service.
So now you put in
a temporary service.
But if you locate it
in the wrong location,
well, now, that can hinder
the operation of the move out.
So you have to know where to put it;
so your job just grows again.
The process starts many months,
even more than a year previous,
as you identify who
from departments are coming.
You realize that in this department
is perhaps a husband,
but in this other department is a wife,
and they’re scheduled
for two different times.
So now, how do you
make that work?
Do we have the support system
in place in order
to handle both of those assignments
at the same time?
Those logistics are all part of the process
that we had to go through at the same time.
You’re planning for two things,
not one, or sometimes even three.
Because at the same time,
when we were ramping up
the movement into Warwick,
the construction family was leaving.
So all that was part of it.
Then it was just a matter of making sure
that we could schedule
all the moves in the necessary time.
On the other side,
once you start moving out of Brooklyn
—once we began the move out of Brooklyn
and every building that got sold—
someone had to go in
and clean the place.
Everything had to be cleared out.
So the collaboration
between departments
has been really nice to see.
When we would come in
and start to speak with groups,
they were 100% cooperative.
Then they wanted to know:
How can they help? What can they do?
Are there other areas that they can help out
—other departments?
So it was not a,
“This is my department,
and I’m going
to protect everything.”
It was more:
“This is the arrangement.
How can we help out?”
A move that size—
We couldn’t do it on our own,
so we had the help
of the Furniture Moving Department.
Brothers even at the other sites
—in Patterson and Wallkill,
in those libraries—
helped us to pack
and somehow to extract books
that we needed in our main library
because we have, I would say,
some 65,000 books at last counting.
The main repository, really,
for research are our books.
Writers, they have to work.
They can’t just say,
“OK, now for two months,
I won’t do anything.”
Thanks to all those moving
—they did a wonderful job helping us out.
Without them,
I think we still would be in Brooklyn
counting our books.
A lot of things go into moving
the Broadcasting Department.
Even in just the studio,
the number of departments
that have assisted
in some way is staggering.
And really, there was no other way
it could have gotten done
without the help of all those
different brothers and sisters.
We got contacted
by the Brooklyn Heights Association.
They wanted to know:
How is this move going to happen?
Brooklyn is very complicated
—there’s traffic everywhere,
people crossing the sidewalk,
trying to get around buses,
construction right behind
the office building here.
So they were very appreciative
of how we had it organized
—how we’d already communicated
with the police
on what we were doing
and how we were going to handle it.
So it was sort of an unexpected,
but we saw Jehovah’s blessing
in that activity as well.
The older ones in Bethel
were the ones who set the pace for us.
The things we learn from them
—their work ethic,
their broad view
of the worldwide field—
to me,
is what our organization is about.
And so for me,
it’s extremely gratifying
to be able to help.
Are they nervous?
Yes.
But really, they are faithful
and want to work
along with Jehovah’s organization,
so they’ve been very cooperative.
When you have a lot of people helping you,
you can’t go wrong.
They know me like the back of their hand.
But, we’ve laughed about it,
and we’re all happy.
And they’re providing us
a lot of assistance in whatever we’re doing,
and I love them for that.
It’s encouraging to see those ones do that.
It sets a nice example for the rest of us.
So some have asked me the question,
“What was the difference between Warwick
and all the other construction projects
that you did under the U.S. branch?”
This one was a little unique.
There was a need
for great communication,
not good communication,
great communication.
We had to trust our brothers and sisters
—implicit trust.
We had to yield to other departments.
I think it’s only been
a training ground, really,
for Jesus Christ to use it
to teach people
and to teach us skills
that we’re going to use for an eternity.
I think it has made
a great impression
on all those who have had
the privilege of working on it.
Once the Bethel family makes
the move out of Brooklyn
and begins to inhabit Warwick,
that’s when you’re going to see
some significant changes.
I am looking forward to the effect
that it has on the brotherhood.
Everywhere we go around the world,
that’s one of the first questions
people ask is: “How is Warwick?
We’re planning to come to Warwick.
We want to come see it.”
And when they come
and they see the beautiful surroundings,
when they see what is there
—the museum that will be there—
it is really going
to touch many people.
As we look to the future,
we have no idea,
but we know that Jehovah
has amazing things in store.
When you see
an organization like this
come together
to accomplish a common goal,
you know
it can only be done by Jehovah.
It touches your heart.
It touches your faith.
It helps you
to really see that, yes,
Jehovah is running
this organization.
And his earthly part
of the organization
is amazing.
When we think about
this first morning worship
from our beautiful new headquarters,
the Governing Body
thought it would be appropriate
to provide an open letter
to thank all who have shared
in the hard work
that went into this project.
How we appreciate it!
But permit me, please,
to read this open letter
from the Governing Body.
“Dear Brothers:
“On behalf of the Warwick Bethel family,
“the Governing Body
would like to express deep appreciation
“for our lovely new home
here at Warwick Bethel.
“How we love
our new residences and offices!
“The fresh air, quiet environment,
“and beautiful scenery
“are already having
a beneficial effect on how we feel.
“We are confident that now
“—with Jehovah’s blessing and help—
“we will be able to work even harder
“and accomplish even more
in behalf of Kingdom interests.
“Even though we do not deserve
“such a wonderful place
to live and work,
“we truly appreciate
this generous expression
“of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness.
“—1 Peter 4:10.
“We are most grateful to Jehovah
“for the more than 27,000
different brothers and sisters
“who volunteered to work
on the construction of this project.
“Many of you dear friends
took vacation time,
“paid your own transportation costs,
lived in small rooms,
“and got up very early in the morning
“to ride buses or shuttles
to the work site.
“Then you worked tirelessly
in all kinds of weather,
“putting your heart into supporting
“this theocratic building project.
“Many of you accepted
multiple invitations to work here.
“Unquestionably,
Jehovah loves you very much
“for what you have done.
“Please be assured that the Governing Body
“loves you very much too!
“To borrow Paul’s words to the Thessalonians,
“‘you have become so beloved to us.’
“—1 Thessalonians 2:8.
“In addition to those who shared
in the actual construction work,
“countless other dear brothers and sisters
“supported this project from afar.
“Self-sacrificing wives
backed their husbands’ participation,
“diligent remote workers lent a hand,
“generous publishers assisted financially,
“and other loyal ones
“encouraged and provided practical help
“to those who were able
to work at the Warwick site.
“Reflecting on those
who helped from far away
“reminds us of 1 Samuel 30:24.
“God’s Word tells us that the ones
who stayed behind with the baggage
“received the same share
“as the ones who went into battle.
“Even though we do not personally know
the vast majority
“of you brothers and sisters
who have supported this project,
“for a certainty, Jehovah knows
each and every one of you.
“As Hebrews 6:10 assures:
“‘God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
“‘and the love you showed for his name
“‘by ministering . . . to the holy ones.’
“Jehovah expects us
to give him our best.
“That is why He found
Cain’s sacrifice displeasing.
“He knew that Cain could have done better.
“—Genesis 4:5.
“But like Abel,
“you dear friends
have given Jehovah your best.
“We are confident that you will continue
to show your wholehearted love
“for Jehovah in harmony
with your circumstances.
“—Genesis 4:4; Matthew 22:37.
“Additionally, the Governing Body
“would like to thank
from the bottom of our heart
“the five brothers
“who served on the
Warwick Construction Project Committee
“for their inexhaustible labors of love.
“We also want to thank profusely
the many Bethelites
“who worked
‘shoulder to shoulder’ with us
“in connection
with this massive theocratic endeavor.
“—Zephaniah 3:9.
“Included are the brothers
on the United States Branch Committee
“and the hardworking brothers and sisters
“in the Furniture Moving Department,
“the Maintenance Department,
the Computer Department,
“the Broadcasting Department,
the Transportation Department,
“and the Bethel Office
“who are still carrying out
the gigantic task
“of moving the Bethel family
from Brooklyn to Warwick.
“We would certainly be remiss
if we failed to thank also
“the thousands upon thousands
of devoted brothers and sisters
“who labored
on the project at Wallkill.
“That too was a massive undertaking!
“May Jehovah bless the willing spirit
that you dear ones have shown.
“In the Bible,
sometimes a thought
“is repeated three times
for emphasis.
“In this vein, we say,
“‘thank you, thank you, thank you’
“to all who have helped us
“and are continuing
to help us bring
“this wonderful theocratic project
at headquarters to completion!
“‘May Jehovah reward you
for what you have done,
“‘and may there be
a perfect wage for you
“‘from Jehovah the God of Israel,
“‘under whose wings
you have come to seek refuge.’
“—Ruth 2:12.
“We express our warm love
“and affection for all of you!
Your brothers,
Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses.”